todo.md, before:

# TODOs

This is the outline for the Winter of Code project for setting up notebook tutorial infrastructure for pySDC.
This is not set in stone and there is no need to do these steps in this order. This should serve as a guideline that can be updated during the project.

For the first two tasks, the pySDC repository can serve as a reference. Ultimately, the goal is to implement what is developed here into pySDC. Copying from there is not a bad idea, but make sure to understand what you copy.


## Task 1: Familiarize yourself with the local testing environment
 - [x] Set up an empty virtual environment with micromamba. Add all dependencies you subsequently need to an environment file to make future setup seamless.
 - [x] Set up a toy code that needs testing and a tutorial. This should be simple. For instance, just a basic add function.
 - [x] Set up a unit test for the code using pytest. E.g. does 1+1=2? 
 - [x] Generate a coverage report for the toy code

## Task 2: Familiarize yourself with GitHub Continuous Integration (CI)
 - [x] Create a GitHub workflow
 - [x] Create a task in the workflow that ...
  - [x] is triggered on push and pull requests
  - [x] initializes a virtual environment with micromamba, replicating your local environment
  - [x] runs the pytest unit tests
  - [x] creates an artifact with a coverage report

## Task 3: Familiarize yourself with notebooks
 - [x] Look for alternatives to Jupyter notebooks for interactive testing. Have a look at the Firedrake repository. What are pros and cons of various approaches? Do this before committing to notebooks. Subsequently, "notebook" will refer to whatever proved to be best. **Winner (preliminary): [Jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext)**
 - [x] Write a tutorial for your toy code in a python file that includes an equation, some code, and a plot
 - [x] Generate a jupyter notebook from the python file using Jupytext which shows the output of the code. Do not check the notebook into git. We only want the plain text python file in version control.

## Task 4: Write local tests for notebooks
 - [x] Write an automatable smoke test for the tutorial. Try simply importing the tutorial python file, which should run all code in that file, in a test.

## Task 5: Implement the notebook tests in the GitHub CI
 - [ ] Add a task running the tutorial tests in parallel to the unit tests
 - [ ] Create an artifact with the merged coverage report
 - [ ] Generate the notebooks in CI and output them as an artifact

## Task 6: Add MPI parallelism
 - [ ] Add a parallel module to your toy code. E.g. parallel sum
 - [ ] Test locally using multiple MPI ranks
 - [ ] Implement parallel unit test in GitHub CI 
 - [ ] Figure out a way to run the notebook tests in parallel
 - [ ] Write parallel smoke test for the notebook
 - [ ] Implement parallel notebook tests in GitHub CI
 - [ ] Merge all coverage reports (Serial and parallel unit and notebook tests) into a single artifact

Commit message:

Step 5 (#5)
* rename folder structure and new github actions job

* rename micromamba env names

* add ci job

* rename uploaded artifacts

* cache introduction for merging reports

* specify cache restore path

* introduce new micromamba env for coverage report merge

* fix typo and change cache path

* add conditional for cache miss

* explicitly saving cache keys

* add uniqueness suffix

* add string interpolation sign

* remove micromamba cache

* check if coverage has been created

* change path

* add fallback pattern

* fix typo

* fix typo

* add fail on cache miss

* update todo

* update to-do

* add initial script for testing and update to-do

* replace cache with upload/download of artifacts

* fix syntax

* fix syntax

* fix syntax

* fix upload artifact

* include hidden file flag

* fix syntax

* add upload ci job and automate notebook conversion

* fix script

* add automatic notebook conversion and upload

* fix glob pattern

* test dir move

* remove artifacts in python code

* update todo

* add move_notebook script

* improve naming of artifacts

* replace python script with bash script and modify ci

* fix syntax

* fix syntax

* fix syntax

* fix syntax

* fix glob pattern for downloaded reports

* download artifacts into same dir

* add ls command for debugging

* add combine script due to glob expansion

* simplifying pytest command

* removal of lint job dependency

* test if two coveragfe files has been downlaoded

* shorten pytest command and rename .coverage files for easier combine step

* removing the need of script and simplify coverage combine

todo.md, after:

# TODOs

This is the outline for the Winter of Code project for setting up notebook tutorial infrastructure for pySDC.
This is not set in stone and there is no need to do these steps in this order. This should serve as a guideline that can be updated during the project.

For the first two tasks, the pySDC repository can serve as a reference. Ultimately, the goal is to implement what is developed here into pySDC. Copying from there is not a bad idea, but make sure to understand what you copy.


## Task 1: Familiarize yourself with the local testing environment
 - [x] Set up an empty virtual environment with micromamba. Add all dependencies you subsequently need to an environment file to make future setup seamless.
 - [x] Set up a toy code that needs testing and a tutorial. This should be simple. For instance, just a basic add function.
 - [x] Set up a unit test for the code using pytest. E.g. does 1+1=2? 
 - [x] Generate a coverage report for the toy code

## Task 2: Familiarize yourself with GitHub Continuous Integration (CI)
 - [x] Create a GitHub workflow
 - [x] Create a task in the workflow that ...
  - [x] is triggered on push and pull requests
  - [x] initializes a virtual environment with micromamba, replicating your local environment
  - [x] runs the pytest unit tests
  - [x] creates an artifact with a coverage report

## Task 3: Familiarize yourself with notebooks
 - [x] Look for alternatives to Jupyter notebooks for interactive testing. Have a look at the Firedrake repository. What are pros and cons of various approaches? Do this before committing to notebooks. Subsequently, "notebook" will refer to whatever proved to be best. **Winner (preliminary): [Jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext)**
 - [x] Write a tutorial for your toy code in a python file that includes an equation, some code, and a plot
 - [x] Generate a jupyter notebook from the python file using Jupytext which shows the output of the code. Do not check the notebook into git. We only want the plain text python file in version control.

## Task 4: Write local tests for notebooks
 - [x] Write an automatable smoke test for the tutorial. Try simply importing the tutorial python file, which should run all code in that file, in a test.

## Task 5: Implement the notebook tests in the GitHub CI
 - [x] Add a task running the tutorial tests in parallel to the unit tests
 - [x] Create an artifact with the merged coverage report
 - [x] Write a script / command that scans a directory for .py files with prefix notebook*.py 
 - [x] Generate the notebooks in CI and output them as an artifact

## Task 6: Add MPI parallelism
 - [ ] Add a parallel module to your toy code. E.g. parallel sum
 - [ ] Test locally using multiple MPI ranks
 - [ ] Implement parallel unit test in GitHub CI 
 - [ ] Figure out a way to run the notebook tests in parallel
 - [ ] Write parallel smoke test for the notebook
 - [ ] Implement parallel notebook tests in GitHub CI
 - [ ] Merge all coverage reports (Serial and parallel unit and notebook tests) into a single artifact
